Harm in this video we are going to talk about K means clustering.
So let's get started.
Basically what is this Kamins clustering.
It is a very very popular and supervised learning algorithm in data mining.
It's very important that so far we have been discussing supervised learning algorithms we have in the
dataset we had the target outputs as well.
So we know for sure that what should be the result in this case we have the data sets without the labels.
So that's why it is unsupervised learning algorithm it automatically DeWyze that data into clusters
or groupings of similar items.
Plus it does this without having been told what the groups should look like ahead of time.
The problem of course is how could a computer possibly know where one group and another begins.
And the answer is that elements inside the cluster should be very similar to each other but on the other
hand very different from those outside.
So basically Kamins clustering is going to make decision based on similarity.
So basically k means clustering aims to partition and observations into clusters in which each observation
belongs to the cluster.
We didn't need us to mean that it can be done with Grath algorithms as so.
I'm not sure whether you are familiar with minimum spanning trees but if we construct the minimum spanning
tree and remove the last k edges we are going to end up with Klosters basically.
So we can solve this.
K means clustering problem with the help of spanning trees as well.
By the way it is an anti heart problem but Loide algorithm is very common no days.
So what is this Loide algorithm.
There are three stops.
First of all we have to initialize the central weights at random.
What are the centroid.
These are the centers of a given cluster.
What's very important that usually we initialize the center of a centroid to the the center author random
data point in the dataset.
Step two we have to decide for every point in our dataset that what centroid is the nearest to them
than the last stop is that we have to calculate the new means of every distinct Gloucester's and we
have to run these taps until convergence.
Of course we don't have to re-initialize the central weights over and over again.
We just have to run the second and the third stops over and over again until convergence.
OK so let's see a concrete example.
We have three examples two features x1 and x2.
In this case these features are going to be the X scored in that and the y coordinate on a two dimensional
plane.
So we have been discussing that we should measure similarity and we are able to measure similarity according
to the distances.
Basically we have to use the Euclidean distance.
OK so we initialize the clusters at random.
And as I said earlier we initialize it to be the center of a random data point in the data set.
For example it is the K equal to 3 case that we are looking for stri clusters in the data set.
The green cluster the red cluster and the blue cluster.
OK then we have to iterate through all the points in our dataset and we have to calculate the distances
to the cluster means.
So we have to calculate the minimum out of the U on the 2 and 3 and we come to the conclusion that the
nearest centroid is the green one.
So it means that this data point belongs to the green Clauss.
OK so we have to do it for every single point in the dataset we have to calculate the minimum distance.
It's going to be a green dot.
It's going to be a green dot again.
Now this is a green dot.
Then this is a green dot.
This is not going to be a green dot because the closer central it is the red one.
So it's going to the red point.
It's going to the red point again but it's going to be blue on blue on blue again blue again and finally
blue.
And then we have to update the central weights.
This is what Lloyd's algorithm tells us to do.
So if we update the centroid we just have to calculate for example for the Greenglass we have to put
the center of the centroid to be the mean of that data point in that given Greenglass.
So for example for the Arat loss it's going to be the mean we calculate the mean on the success and
I mean on the y axis or the X-1 feature and X-2 features and we re-initialize the location of the central
heat for the rat class we do the same for the green glass and we do the same for the blue glass and
after that we have to consider that a lot because the location of the central needs have changed.
So maybe there are datapoints that's going to belong to another class.
So basically all of the points are correct except for this one.
This point has belong to the blue class.
But after we re-initialize the location for the central AIDS we have come to the conclusion it is going
to belong to the rat class and we have to re-initialize the location for the central AIDS.
And after that or algorithm has converged in the sense that basically we are not going to change the
location of the central AIDS and we are not going to change the color of the given thoughts.
And an important question is how to find the key parameter.
And this is what we are going to talk about in the next video.
Thanks for watching.